we'll start by creating a part template
that uses the inch unit of measure and
the ANSI drafting standard you'll also
learn about some of SolidWorks system
options and document properties click
the new file command on the menu bar
this opens the new SolidWorks document
dialog box with this dialog box you can
open a new part file and assembly file
or a new drawing file all you have to do
is click one of the file template
commands if you click the advanced
button you can see the same templates
and they work the same way just click a
template to create a new file you can
add custom templates to the advanced
view but with the novelist view you can
only use the default templates so from
now on we're going to use the advanced
view I'll explain about the tutorial tab
in just a minute all you need to know
now is that there is a tutorial tab and
there's a few templates in the templates
tab you can highlight a template and
then click OK but it's faster to just
double click the template double-click
the part template and as you can see
this creates a new part file you know
that you've created a new part file
because the title bar shows the name of
the file which is part 1 and the future
menu tree has part 1 at the top of the
tree right-click on part 1 and then
select document properties we're going
to create a template for Park files that
use the inch unit of measure and the
anti drafting standard and the overall
standard controls all the settings on
this dialog box it's currently set to
ISO and if you click annotations you can
see that annotations are controlled by
the ISO standard click the drafting
standard and then change the overall
standard to ANSI now if you browse
through the settings you can see that
they all use the ANSI standard click
units and then change the default units
for the file 2 inches pounds and seconds
well revisit these settings later in the
course but you might want to take a
minute to browse through them for now
we're just going to change the overall
drafting standard in the units click the
system options tab and here's where you
can change settings that
control the SolidWorks application click
file locations and now you can see where
template files are stored if you recall
there was a tutorial tab and as you
might have guessed template files are
stored in this folder we're going to
store our first template in a folder
named te DCF click the Add button and
then browse to the root of a drive that
you typically save your data on now
click the make new folder button and
then rename the folder to te DCF with
the TDC a folder highlighted click the
make new folder button and then rename
the folder to custom we'll save the file
in the custom folder as a part template
but I also want to point out that all
the files we create will be stored in
the TE DCF folder this makes the files
portable if you decide to move your
documents and customize files to a new
computer or hard drive all you have to
do is move the te DCF folder you'll see
how this works as we create new folders
and files throughout the course click OK
to create the search path now in
SolidWorks looks for document templates
it will look in the custom folder in the
te DCF folder notice that you can move
the search path up or down in the list
the order of this list sets a priority
of the search path you'll see how this
works in just a minute for now I want
you to look at the path at the top of
the list this is the search path that
has the highest priority so remember
this path because you'll see it in just
a minute click OK and you'll be asked if
you want to add the search path click
yes and now we need to save the file
click the save command and then browse
to the custom folder name the file part
- I hand to indicate that it's a part
template and that it uses the inch unit
of measure
now click the down arrow on the save as
type combo box these are the types of
files that SolidWorks can create from a
part file you can create IES and STL
files and you can create profiles
we're creating a part template so select
this option when you change the file
type to part templates the looking
window automatically changes to the
search path that has the highest
priority which is the path at the top of
the list in the system options so we'll
need to change the priority so that our
custom template folder will
automatically be used cancel this
operation and then open the system
options highlight the file locations and
then move the custom template to the top
of the list click OK and then click the
save command now set the file type to
part templates as you can see this
automatically opens the custom folder
name the file part - I in and then save
it
now click the new file command as you
can see the new template is in the
custom tab of the dialog box you can add
more tabs to the dialog box by adding
subfolders in the custom folder the only
requirement is the subfolder has to
contain template files if the subfolder
doesn't contain template files it won't
create a tab